ai_models doc init (#293)
PrefectHQ/marvin: docs/index.md

# Welcome to Marvin 🤖🏖️

![](img/heroes/ai_model_windy_city_hero.png)

Meet [Marvin](https://github.com/prefecthq/marvin): a batteries-included library for building AI-powered software. Marvin's job is to integrate AI directly into your codebase by making it look and feel like any other function. Marvin is building the gears, cranks, and pistons to let mechanical software systems integrate with and leverage the raw power of Large Language Models.

Marvin introduces two new concepts:
  - [**AI Models**](guide/concepts/ai_models.md). These models, grounded in Pydantic, offer a transformative approach to data processing by converting unstructured contexts into type-safe outputs that validate against your model schema. This empowers you to interrogate your data through your schema. AI models present an elegant solution that combines the potent reasoning capabilities of AI with the sturdy, type-safe boundaries set by Pydantic.

>   - [**AI Functions**](guide/concepts/ai_functions.md). These functions differ from conventional ones in that they don’t rely on source code, but instead generate their outputs on-demand with AI by using an LLM as a runtime. With AI functions, you don't have to write complex code for tasks like extracting entities from web pages, scoring sentiment, or categorizing items in your database. Just describe your needs, call the function, and you're done!

Reviewer: im not sure really sure that `ai_model` should unseat `ai_fn` as the centerpiece here, since `ai_model` is built using `ai_fn` and `ai_fn` has thus far been the most exciting feature to Marvin among users

<!-- ![](img/heroes/gpp.png) -->
![](img/tui/colorful_fruit.png)

> ⚙️ Create [AI Models](guide/concepts/ai_models.md) to make data models that can structure and infer derived information from unstructured text data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚙️ Create [AI Models](guide/concepts/ai_models.md) to make data models that can derive structured information from unstructured text data
```
